This diagram shows the nature of interaction for a user
with disabilities as they operate a digital interface.
While the designer does not need to have a full command
of this process, understanding what is happening
behind the scenes provides context to the work
of annotating designs with blue, blue lines at play.
Here are the user with a disability,
their assistive technology, like a screen reader,
for example, the accessibility API,
and the user interface of the application.
The user with a disability
who relies on assistive technology, like a screen reader,
will initiate an interaction with the ui.
Their assistive technology will reach out
to the accessibility API, which is inherent
to all platforms and surfaces.
This interaction is where designers inform the process
By providing the accessible name of a UI element,
for example, the information is routed back
to the user via their assistive technology.
Without careful consideration of things like naming
structure and keyboard focus, path management, this aspect
of the user experience may be of low quality
and often can cause human harm.
Blue line annotations seek to alleviate these problems
by considering accessibility as a factor
of the overall user experience.
Click next to proceed.
Assistive technologies include things like screen readers,
speech input, software keyboards,
and keyboard alternatives, and much more.
This training focuses on the assistive technologies
of screen readers, speech input,
and keyboards, as they're the most impacted
by blue line annotations.
Screen readers are primarily utilized
by people without the ability to see the interface
and instead listen to it.
These users rely on a keyboard
and speech input rather than using a mouse.
This software reads aloud content
and the user interface via a synthesized speech output
and relies on keyboard or gesture to operate keyboard only.
And keyboard alternatives are primarily for users
who cannot rely on a mouse to operate the interface.
All functionality needs
to be made available via a single action like a key press
or manipulating a switch device.
Speech input is utilized primarily by people with physical
or motor impairments
that prevent them from using a pointing device like a mouse.
By considering how the interface functions via speech output
and speech input, as well as
how the interface functions without the use
of a pointing device, the designer helps ensure the
interface is usable by people
with a wide spectrum of abilities.
The screen reader is by far the assistive technology
that designers will spend the most time
and effort and annotating for.
The annotation types of accessible name landmarks, headings,
and keyboard focus and tab order all have a net effect
on the screen reader user.
If we take a simple example
of an action only button in spectrum, we can see
that the designer needs
to annotate the accessible name as print.
The engineer then codes that properly
with the accessible name.
The accessible name is now available
to the accessibility API.
So the screen reader could announce print
button to the screen reader.
User designers don't need to use the words aria label
and their design annotations.
The designer here only needs
to consider the oral user experience.
Click next to proceed.